Update `Gameplay/Judgement/osu!` with ground truth information (#7527)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Gameplay/Judgement/osu!/en.md

  - Getting a 100 for a slider requires getting a 100 judgement or better for the slider head.

The slider parts also have additional influence on the current [combo](/wiki/Gameplay/Combo_(score_multiplier)):

- Tapping the slider head too early does not incur a miss, but will reset combo to 0.
- Missing a slider tick or repeat does not incur a miss, but will reset combo to 0.
- Missing the slider end does not incur a miss, but will not increment combo.

### Spinners

Each spinner has a set number of spins required to complete it. This number depends on the [overall difficulty](/wiki/Beatmap/Overall_difficulty#sliders-and-spinners) of the beatmap. The criteria for judging the spinner as a whole are as follows:

- 300: The player successfully performed the number of spins required for completion, or more.
- 100: The player performed one spin less than the required number.
- 50: The player performed at least 25% of the required spins.
- Miss: The player failed to meet the minimum of 25% of spins required.

For some very short spinners, the number of spins required is actually calculated to be 0, and thus the spinner always automatically completes itself with a 300.

> #### History

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## History
```

Author: I originally made it a subsection of the spinner section since that was the only place where history was relevant but sure, I guess no harm.

Reviewer: i'm pretty sure the history section should basically always be a level 2 heading, since it also opens up for more history to be put there

# osu! judgement system

## Hit result

| Image | Name | Effect |
| :-: | :-: | :-- |

> | ![](/wiki/shared/judgement/osu!/hit300.png "300") | 300 | The best achievable result for a hit object.  Scoring nothing except 300s in a beatmap will award the player with the SS or SSH grade. Usually denoted with a blue colour. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ![](/wiki/shared/judgement/osu!/hit300.png "300") | 300 | The best achievable result for a hit object. Scoring nothing except 300s in a beatmap will award the player with the SS or SSH [grade](/wiki/Gameplay/Grade). Usually denoted with a blue colour. |
```

> | ![](/wiki/shared/judgement/osu!/hit300g.png "Geki") | 300 (激) Geki | A variant of the 300 result. Originates from Ouendan, called Elite Beat! in EBA. Granted upon hitting a 300 on the last element in a combo in which the player has scored only 300s. Getting a Geki will grant a sizable health bonus on top of the standard health increase for a 300. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ![](/wiki/shared/judgement/osu!/hit300g.png "Geki") | 300 (激) Geki | A variant of the 300 result. Originates from [Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osu!_Tatakae!_Ouendan), called Elite Beat! in [Elite Beat Agents](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/iNiS_games#elite-beat-agents). Granted upon hitting a 300 on the last element in a combo in which the player has scored only 300s. Getting a Geki will grant a sizable health bonus on top of the standard health increase for a 300. |
```

> | ![](/wiki/shared/judgement/osu!/hit300k.png "300 Katu") | 300 (喝) Katu or Katsu | A variant of the 300 result. Originates from Ouendan, called Beat! in EBA. Granted upon hitting a 300 on the last element in a combo in which the player has scored at least one 100, but no 50s or misses. Getting a Katu will give a small health bonus on top of the standard health increase for a 300. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ![](/wiki/shared/judgement/osu!/hit300k.png "300 Katu") | 300 (喝) Katu or Katsu | A variant of the 300 result. Originates from [Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osu!_Tatakae!_Ouendan), called Beat! in [Elite Beat Agents](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/iNiS_games#elite-beat-agents). Granted upon hitting a 300 on the last element in a combo in which the player has scored at least one 100, but no 50s or misses. Getting a Katu will give a small health bonus on top of the standard health increase for a 300. |
```

| ![](/wiki/shared/judgement/osu!/hit100.png "100") | 100 | The second best achievable result for a hit object. Usually denoted with a green colour. |

> | ![](/wiki/shared/judgement/osu!/hit100k.png "100 Katu") | 100 (喝) Katu or Katsu | A variant of the 100 result. Originates from Ouendan, called Beat! in EBA. Granted upon hitting a 100 on the last element in a combo in which the player has scored at least one 100, but no 50s or misses. Getting a Katu will give a small health bonus on top of the standard health increase for a 100. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ![](/wiki/shared/judgement/osu!/hit100k.png "100 Katu") | 100 (喝) Katu or Katsu | A variant of the 100 result. Originates from [Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osu!_Tatakae!_Ouendan), called Beat! in [Elite Beat Agents](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/iNiS_games#elite-beat-agents). Granted upon hitting a 100 on the last element in a combo in which the player has scored at least one 100, but no 50s or misses. Getting a Katu will give a small health bonus on top of the standard health increase for a 100. |
```

| ![](/wiki/shared/judgement/osu!/hit50.png "50") | 50 | The third best achievable result for a hit object, the last one before a miss. Usually denoted with an orange colour. Scoring a 50 will prevent the appearance of a Katu or a Geki at the combo's end. |
| ![](/wiki/shared/judgement/osu!/hit0.png "Miss") | Miss | The worst possible result for a hit object. Scoring a Miss will reset the current combo to 0 and will prevent the appearance of a Katu or a Geki at the combo's end. |

## Judgement mechanics

### Hit circles

> - A hit circle is judged as a 300, 100, or 50 depending on how accurate the player's timing is when clicking on it.
>   The time intervals used to determine the concrete result for a hit circle are called *hit windows*, and are influenced by the beatmap's [overall difficulty](/wiki/Beatmap/Overall_difficulty#osu!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A hit circle is judged as a 300, 100, or 50 depending on how accurate the player's timing is when clicking on it. The time intervals used to determine the concrete result for a hit circle are called *hit windows*, and are influenced by the beatmap's [overall difficulty](/wiki/Beatmap/Overall_difficulty#osu!).
```

- A hit circle is judged as missed when:
  - The circle is hit before the start of the 50 hit window and does not trigger [notelock](/wiki/Gameplay/Judgement/Notelock).

>   - The circle is hit after the end of the 50 hit window, or not hit at all.

Reviewer: you kinda automatically get a miss if you don't hit it, and you can't really hit it afterwards

```suggestion
  - The circle is not hit and its 50 hit window passes.
```

### Sliders

> Sliders consist of parts such as the slider head, slider tail, slider ticks, and slider repeats. The slider as a whole is judged based on how many parts of the slider the player has hit, as outlined below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sliders consist of multiple parts: the slider head, slider tail, slider ticks, and slider repeats. The slider as a whole is judged based on how many parts of the slider the player has hit, as outlined below:
```

- 300: The player successfully hit all slider parts.
- 100: The player hit at least half of the slider parts.
- 50: The player managed to hit at least one of the parts.
- Miss: The player did not successfully hit any of the slider parts.
- If [ScoreV2](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/ScoreV2) is active, the accuracy of hitting the slider head is additionally accounted for when judging the entire slider:
  - Getting a 300 for a slider requires getting a 300 judgement for the slider head.
  - Getting a 100 for a slider requires getting a 100 judgement or better for the slider head.

The slider parts also have additional influence on the current [combo](/wiki/Gameplay/Combo_(score_multiplier)):

>   - Tapping the slider head too early does not incur a miss, but will reset combo to 0.
>   - Missing a slider tick or repeat does not incur a miss, but will reset combo to 0.
>   - Missing the slider end does not incur a miss, but will not increment combo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tapping the slider head too early does not incur a miss, but will reset combo to 0.
- Missing a slider tick or repeat does not incur a miss, but will reset combo to 0.
- Missing the slider end does not incur a miss, but will not increment combo.
```

### Spinners

Each spinner has a set number of spins required to complete it. This number depends on the [overall difficulty](/wiki/Beatmap/Overall_difficulty#sliders-and-spinners) of the beatmap. The criteria for judging the spinner as a whole are as follows:

- 300: The player successfully performed the number of spins required for completion, or more.

> - 100: The player performed one spin less than the required number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 100: The player performed fewer spins than the required number.
```

Author: This suggestion loses information. The point was that there is a one-spin difference between minimum spins for a 300 and minimum spins for a 100.

Reviewer: ?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36758269/174487311-5376966f-7e3c-4c5e-9af1-1859c06ec802.png)

Author: That's correct.

Reviewer: ok lol

  The time intervals used to determine the concrete result for a hit circle are called *hit windows*, and are influenced by the beatmap's [overall difficulty](/wiki/Beatmap/Overall_difficulty#osu!).
- A hit circle is judged as missed when:
  - The circle is hit before the start of the 50 hit window and does not trigger [notelock](/wiki/Gameplay/Judgement/Notelock).
  - The circle is hit after the end of the 50 hit window, or not hit at all.

### Sliders

Sliders consist of parts such as the slider head, slider tail, slider ticks, and slider repeats.
The slider as a whole is judged based on how many parts of the slider the player has hit.

- A 300 is given if the player successfully hits all slider parts.
- A 100 is given if the player hits at least half of them.
- A 50 is given if the player manages to hit at least one of the parts.
- A miss is given if the player does not successfully hit any of the slider parts.
- If [ScoreV2](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/ScoreV2) is active, the accuracy of hitting the slider head is additionally accounted for when judging the entire slider:
  - Getting a 300 for a slider requires getting a 300 judgement for the slider head.

>   - Getting a 100 for a slider requires getting a 100 judgement or better for the slider head.

Reviewer 2: perhaps this may be reworded into something less repetitive, so that the whole list is less `if x then y`. example:

```md
something something judgement is based on a no. of successfully cleared elements:

- 300: all parts
- 100: at least half of the parts
- 50: at least one part
- miss: no parts
```

same goes for the spinner-related section

Author: See how you find the latest changes. Hopefully better in this respect.

Reviewer 2: that's better. the format likely couldn't be improved much as it's structure-dependent, so I'll take that

  - Missing the slider end does not incur a miss, but will not increment combo.

### Spinners

Each spinner has a set number of spins required to complete it.
This number depends on the [overall difficulty](/wiki/Beatmap/Overall_difficulty#sliders-and-spinners) of the beatmap.

- A 300 is given if the player completes the number of spins required for completion, or more.
- A 100 is given if the player completes one spin less than the required number.
- A 50 is given if the player completes at least 25% of the required spins.
- If the player fails to meet the minimum of 25% of spins required, the spinner is judged as a miss.

For some very short spinners, the number of spins required is actually calculated to be 0, and thus the spinner always automatically completes itself with a 300.

#### History

The spinner judging algorithm has been significantly changed in the [20190510.2 Cutting Edge release](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/cuttingedge/20190510.2).
Prior to the change, non-miss judgements were significantly harder to achieve, as the difference between a 50 and a 100, as well as between a 100 and a 300, was equal to a half of a spin.

> Some beatmaps would even feature spinners that could never be judged with a 300, as they were too short to complete fully.

Reviewer 2: this should be written all on the same line, like in most, if not all articles. besides, the linked changelog entry may be a good candidate for a footnote

Author: Yeah I don't know what the policy on line breaks is. I'm mostly putting one sentence per line but I'll stop doing so if it's not proper.

I can make this a footnote, but what do I attach it to? The section header?

Reviewer 2: I think the release name fits the most:

```md
The spinner judging algorithm has been significantly changed in the 20190510.2 Cutting Edge release.[^ce-spinners-ref]

## References

[^ce-spinners-ref]: [Cutting Edge 20190510.2 · changelog](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/cuttingedge/20190510.2)
```

Author: Oh you mean footnoting just the link to the changelog rather than the entire section? Sure I can do that.

Reviewer: why do a footnote if you're duplicating the "20190510.2 Cutting Edge release"?

Reviewer 2: I... yeah, this is excessive, disregard the footnote part of my suggestion. seeing everything as a nail now that we've got a hammer.

Author: Line breaks have been culled in [c19be0f](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/7527/commits/c19be0fdb61975311e14333ff5b427b6485542c4).
